# **AirQuality API**

## **Getting started**

This application has been developed to extract air quality data, from cities all over the world. User can get air-related information such as air polution as well as current weather conditions for a specific city. For this reason, a Cassandra database has been created. A succesful request includes the name of the city and the name of the country. We eliminated the parameters needed to two, as the name of the state can be automatically received by the database.      
- The application provides a dynamically generated REST API.
- It makes use of an external REST service to complement its functionality.
- It also uses Cassandra, a NoSQL database management system for retreiving related information.
- Security authentication is applied in order to get access to API's content.  
 
## **Prerequisites**

### **1. Installing Python 3.6 using the command line:**
```
sudo apt-get install python3
```
### 2. Creating and activating our flask virtual python environment by typing the following command:
```
python3 -m venv flask_venv
```
```
source flask_venv/bin/activate
```
####   Notice the change in the (beginning of the) prompt that reflects this activation(flask_venv)

### From the same directory run the following:
```
python -m pip install -U -r requirements.txt
```
## **Running the Application**

1. Run the air quality app by typing the command below:
```
python project.py
```
2. Click on the external link provided after successfully completion of all previous steps.
3. Get access to the API by entering the username:mtzanis & password:Upur2eh7er
4. Fill in the name of the city as well as the name of the country. The name of the state should be automatically generated by our database. 
5. Click on the search button in order to get all the available information.
For example you can test City:Austin Country:USA . State (Texas) should be filled in automatically. 

###### Notes:
- Both city and country names MUST start with a capital letter. 
- Due to licence restrictions, data is limited to a very few cities only. 

